---
layout: post
title:  "Wire goes ZuriHac"
author: Arian van Putten, Matthias Fischmann, Matthias Heinzel
categories: [haskell, events]
---

[Wire](wire.com) went to [ZuriHac](https://zfoh.ch/zurihac2020/) last
week-end!  With 500 attendants last year, ZuriHac is probably the
biggest event for Haskell enthusiasts, academics, and programmers
world-wide, and not so small compared to software engineering events
in general.  It is a hybrid between hackathon and conference: people
form groups to work on many popular software projects here, but if you
prefer, you can spend most of your day in talks and tutorials and
making friends with people in the hallway.

This year people didn't meet on a [University
Campus](https://www.hsr.ch/) at the Southern shore of Lake Zurich in
Switzerland, but on Discord and on YouTube.

That was a new experience.  In the previous years it was only possible
to follow one or two things at a time because everything happened in
different rooms, but this year it was just so easy to switch between
conversations and trying to keep up with too many things at once.
Live-chatting during the talk was super useful, but sometimes
distracting, so I then had to rewind a bit, increase playback speed to
catch up, then look at new messages in the chat again etc.

In the end, it was brilliantly organised and a big success.  Sad that
there was no dip in the lake in the afternoon, and no barbecue at
night, but talks and hacking and networking worked almost as well.
Better in weird ways: easier to focus, easier to hunt down people you
know must be around here somewhere.

The Wire team worked on a couple of things.

[TODO @arianvp: released a new 2fa library]

[Servant](https://github.com/haskell-servant/servant) is a library for
generating rest API servers (mock or with hand-written, type-checked
handlers), application-specific client libraries in many languages,
Swagger docs, and some more that are correct by construction.  One of
the more widely discussed issues is that Servant's type-level
machinery could only model one type of response (eg., `200 found`, but
not any one of `200 found`, `400 bad request`, `404 not found`).  The
user always had to pick one of the possible responses as the default
that is returned, and return all others by throwing exceptions,
without the type-level correctness that makes Servant useful.

We have thought about this [for a
while](https://github.com/wireapp/servant-uverb) now, and during
ZuriHac have turned these ideas into a [pull
request](https://github.com/haskell-servant/servant/pull/1314) that we
want to release soon.  There will be a longer blog post about this
once it's released.  Thanks @Taneb for spending most of your wee-end
on this with @fisx!  :)
